## CHAPTER I. THE SCIENCE OF EXPRESSION

(This chapter may be omitted for less advanced classes; the contents, however, must be fully explained to the students by the teacher, so that they will get a new way of looking at grammar.)

### 1.10. Something to Say and Way of Saying It

You have already studied English for three or four years. You know already something about the parts of speech and the forms and relations of words, like singular and plural, subject and predicate, etc. Now we want to make a more general study of the different forms and relations, and this we call the study of English grammar.

Probably you have heard that grammar is difficult and dry. This is not true. It is difficult and dry if you study it in the wrong way, if you try only to remember the rules and definitions. It should not be difficult or uninteresting, if you study the many living idioms and forms of expressions, and find out how an Englishman would express an idea which you have in mind. To study how the English people express an idea, and compare it with the Chinese way is always useful, and sometimes highly interesting.

In everything we say, there are always (1) something to say, and (2) the way of saying it. We shall call the former the notions, and the latter the expression of these notions. We must understand that grammar has no meaning for us except to teach us about these notions and the ways of expressing them. In studying English grammar in this book, we shall always ask ourselves this question: If we have this idea, how shall we express it?

### 1.11. All Grammatical Forms and Constructions are Ways of Expressing Notions

We must understand that all grammatical forms and constructions are simply ways of expressing notions. If we have the idea that it's raining outside, we express this in Chinese by saying hsia-yu la (下雨了), or perhaps t'ien hsia-yu la (天下雨了), and in English by saying It rains. But It rains means the same thing as hsia-yu la, although the way of saying it is different.

If we look closely, we see the English expression has a subject it, which is absent in the Chinese sentence. We find also the letter s (pronounced [z]) added to the word rain, which is also not found in Chinese. But the construction with it and -s is really only a means of expressing an idea or notion. In the following, we shall find the English language has different grammatical forms for the general idea It rains:

- It rains.                              下雨了.
- Does it rain?                          下雨了吗?
- Is it raining?                         正在下雨吗?
- It is going to rain.                   要下雨了.
- Has it rained?                         下过了雨吗?
- Did it rain?                           (昨天)下雨的吗?

You see the changes in Is it —ing? Has it —ed? Did it —? are not useless changes of form merely, but are the means of expressing notions. Again take the sentences:

He strikes me.     I strike him.

In Chinese, we would simply say:

T'a ta wo (他打我). Wo ta t'a (我打他).

English uses the forms me and him to express the persons that are objects of the verb strike. But in Chinese, we express the same idea just as clearly by always putting the object behind the verb. This word-order in Chinese has the same grammatical value or purpose as the English distinction between I and me, he and him. Sometimes, this object-notion is expressed in Chinese by the use of pa, as in pa mên t'ui k'ai (把門推開, push open the door), pa jên ta ssŭ (把人打死, kill the man), and pa ch'ien ch'iang tsou (把錢搶走, rob his money). The use of pa to introduce the object, therefore, may be regarded as a Chinese grammatical means for expressing the object-notion.

### 1.20. Grammar as the Science of Expression

In the above, we have seen already that two languages may express the same notion or idea by different grammatical means. That is why the study of a foreign grammar should be very interesting, because it teaches us to compare the two languages, and helps us to express our ideas in the correct foreign way. Take, for instance, the group of notions called “Number.” We find there are notions of indefinite number, like more than sixty, or 六十多, 六十餘. Some Chinese students often make the mistake of saying sixty more, whereas the correct English way is to say over sixty, or sixty-odd. The old-style grammars do not teach this, because the old-style grammars are interested only in the forms of singular and plural, like girl, girls / child, children. They do not bother about the rest when there is no change in word-form. We have to study this expression over sixty, because we start from the notion we wish to express, and here is an English expression that we must learn. Again, the old-style grammars teach us that there are three degrees of comparison, like hot, hotter, hottest / early, earlier, earliest, because there are these three changes in word-form. As a matter of fact, there are not only three, but a thousand varying degrees, and as many ways of expressing them, like less hot, not so very hot, rather hot, just hot enough, too hot, hot enough to burn your fingers, so hot that you can hardly breathe, as hot as a furnace, etc. All these expressions are as much a part of English grammar as the expressions hot, hotter, hottest. Again, among the notions of number, there is the Chinese notion of ch'eng (成) or tenths and there is the English notion of percentage: the correct English expression for pa-ch'eng-wu (八成五) is simply eighty-five per cent. If we thus proceed from one group of notions to another, we shall soon learn all the important English forms of expression for the chief kinds of ideas and relationships.*

We shall thus study many things that are not found in the old-style grammar books. And in the study of the changes in form, like It rains, It rained, It has rained, It has been raining, etc., which are found in the old-style grammars, we shall study them not as empty forms to be repeated and memorized, but as means of expressing some ideas which we have in our mind.

*Of course we cannot study all the expressions in the language, which is the work of the dictionary. The difference between a book of grammar and a dictionary or book of phrases is that grammar deals with only the types or classes of expressions, and the dictionary deals with particular expressions. According to Sweet, grammar deals with the general facts of language, lexicology with special facts. (Henry Sweet, Collected Papers, quoted by Jespersen, Philosophy of Grammar, p. 32)

### 1.30. National Differences in Notions and Their Expressions

All languages differ in their ways of expressing notions, and no one can say which language is right and which is wrong. All expressions are correct that serve to express our ideas clearly and adequately. *It rains, with a false subject, is as correct English as hsia-yu la, without any subject whatsoever, is correct Chinese. The English and Chinese languages differ both in notions and in their expressions. For instance, in Chinese, we can use the word peh both as an adjective and a noun, as in peh ma chih peh (白馬之白, Mencius), but in English, we have to say the whiteness of a white horse. On the other hand, in speaking of rich people and poor people, we may simply say the poor, the rich in English, but in Chinese we have to say p'in chek, fu chek (貧者, 富者) besides p'in-min, fu hu (貧民, 富戶). Again, it is perfectly all right to say t'a p'a (他怕, literally, “He afraid”) in Chinese, but in English, we have to add the connecting verb and say He is afraid. These are differences in ways of expression.

### 1.31. English and Chinese Notions Differences

Not only are English and Chinese expressions different, sometimes the notions themselves differ in the two languages. Thus the vague idea expressed by should in I should think so is absent in Chinese, and to learn this expression, the Chinese student of English has first to learn the notion itself. This goes back to the English distinction between fact and fancy, and is a way of avoiding stating I think so too definitely as a fact. There is the same notional distinction between It is all right and It would be all right, the latter being a more polite and less cocksure way of saying the former. *Many Chinese students can never learn to use these expressions, because they are never taught this English distinction between fact and fancy.

On the other hand, we can think of Chinese notions which are not found in English. Thus the Chinese tentative action, as in ta-i-ta (打一打), or hsi-i-hsi (洗一洗), is difficult to express in English, because the English generally do not have this notion, although they sometimes express it in saying take a look, have a taste (=看一看, 尝一尝). Our Chinese ideas of family relationships with a very sharp sense (or notion) of superiority and inferiority and sex distinction, as in the different ranks of brothers, cousins, nephews, uncles and aunts (哥哥, 弟弟, 表妹, 堂姊, 外甥, 姪女, 舅, 丈, 妗, 姨) are difficult to express in English, because the English people generally do not make much of such distinctions. In English, the wife’s brother, the husband’s brother, the older sister’s husband, and the younger sister’s husband are all called brothers-in-law.

### 1.32. English Grammar Teaching English Ways

English grammar should, therefore, teach us the English ways of thinking and expression. We should learn to say the whiteness of a white horse (not white of white horse), over sixty (not sixty more), in three minutes (not three minutes more), I should think so (not always I think so), It would be all right (not always It is all right) and the poor and the rich (not always poor people and rich people). It should teach us always to say He is afraid (not He afraid), He becomes tired (not He tired), and always to say It rains, instead of the Chinese Rain already. To learn these English ways of thinking and expression is the object of our study of English grammar.

### 1.40. Formal and Notional Grouping of Grammatical Facts

There are two ways of arranging the facts of grammar and of studying them. One is the old way, and that is to study the parts of speech one by one, first the nouns, then the pronouns, etc., and learn how each part of speech may be changed in form. Thus we study, for instance, first the changes in nouns due to gender (tiger—tigress, ox—cow), or number (child—children, mouse—mice), then the changes in pronouns due to case (he—his—him) or number (this—these, that—those), then the changes in adjectives (hot—hotter—hottest), the changes in verbs (I go, you go, he goes), etc. This way may be called the formal way of grouping grammatical facts, where we chiefly study the changes in form and their meaning. This is looking at grammar from the outside: we start from the outer form to the inner meaning, from the expression to the content.

Another and better way is to look at grammar from the inside, and start from the idea we wish to express to its expression, from inner meaning to outer form. We thus group all the grammatical means of expression according to the class of notions or ideas which they express, like number and quantity, weight and value, modification, comparison and degree, time of action, fact and fancy, relationships, etc. Under each group, we study how these ideas are expressed in English. All means of expressing the same class of notions are studied together, whether they are adjectives, adverbs, pronouns or conjunctions. Thus, under the notion of “Time,” we study all the ways of expressing time, including the tenses of the verbs (come, came, shall come), the adverbs of time (always, never, soon, three times a week, etc.) and the conjunctions regarding time (until, since, as soon as), etc. Under the notion “Modification,” we study at the same time all the kinds of modifiers, whether they be adjectives (good work), adverbs (well done), nouns (an inch wide), infinitives (nothing to do), participles (boiling water), or word-groups (Sunday afternoon concert). This may be called a notional grouping, and the different chapters are arranged according to notional groups or categories.

In this way, we study the changes of different parts of speech also, but only in connexion with the notions which these changes help to express. For instance, we do not learn the expression He has returned just as a form in the “indicative mood, present perfect, third person singular” (as in the old grammars), but as a form expressing a condition, and contrast it with He returned as expressing an action. He has returned means the same thing as He is at home now, while He returned expresses a totally different notion, viz. that He took the journey home, or He turned back. Thus we learn in each case how to use the grammatical form studied.

### 1.41. Outline of the Course

In this book, we shall follow the second or new way, which is according to notional groups. We shall first study the parts of speech and see how words used in different parts of speech (nouns used as adjectives, adjectives used as nouns, etc.) are changed. This gives us a general idea of the relationship between word-class (part of speech) and word-form, and makes us acquainted with the formal endings like -cy, -ness, -ly (secrecy, goodness, decidedly: Ch. II).* Next we shall study the different moods of sentences, and learn the various ways of making statements or denials, asking questions, giving commands, expressing doubts and hopes, etc. (Ch. III) Next under the general notion of “Things” (Ch. IV), we learn the English distinctions of persons and things, abstract and concrete things, mass-words, personification and gender (Ch. IV). Then we go on to study the English notions of number, quantity, (much, many, seven per cent), weight, value (pound, shilling), distance (yard, mile, within call), position and shape (Chs. V-VI). Then under “Representation” (Ch. VII), we shall study how words may be used to take the place of other words (chiefly covering the pronouns, but including also other ways of representation, as I told him to, for I told him to take the cover off). Then comes the group of expressions for determining things, as which one? the one you saw, second, either . . . or, any old thing, etc. (Ch. VIII). In Chapter IX, we shall learn all the ways by which words are used to describe or modify other words, and the relations between the modifiers and the modified. In the next chapter (Ch. X), we shall study the different expressions of degree. We come then (Ch. XI) to a discussion of the ideas of “Action,” and first come the notional classes called “Aspects of Action” (as begin to read, keep on reading, make one read, etc.). These ideas must be made clear before we can use the English verbs properly. Then follows a chapter on “Transitive Action” (Ch. XII: relations between subjects and objects, use of active and passive, action of objects, etc.) and next a chapter on “Time of Action” (Ch. XIII: present, past, future, coming after, coming at the same time, etc.). Chapter XIV is devoted to a discussion of the English distinction between fact and fancy (the verbal moods) which is so strange to the Chinese ways of thinking. In Chapter XV, we shall learn the different ways of expressing relationships (chiefly dealing with conjunctions and prepositions, as since, because, instead of, including, unless, in accordance with, in order that). We discuss in this chapter also the use of punctuation marks to indicate such relationships. Finally (Ch. XVI, Economy of Expression), we shall bring together all the English ways of simplifying expressions which often make our sentences easier, more natural and more idiomatic.

### 1.42. Living Grammar

By following this plan of study, we shall cover all the material usually found in grammar books, and more besides, but always in close connexion with the English thoughts and expressions. English grammar is thus made living and full of meaning for us. Under the notional head in each chapter, we shall have plenty of time to get acquainted with all the English ways of thinking and expression, connected with it, and thus we shall gradually learn to think in English and express ourselves as an Englishman would in his native language.